With the help of a mobile data entry system, it is possible to design much more efficient logistics processes in a company since it is not necessary any more to perform all these tasks manually. Instead, you can simply scan items with an MDE scanner, which then sends the corresponding information directly to the merchandise management system. The advantage in this case is that the storage locations, batch numbers, and serial numbers do not have to be entered manually any more, which then prevents errors when entering the data.
the following functionality in the context of mobile data entry:Placement of items in stock, Stock transfers of items, Picking of items, Packaging of items, Reading items for the purpose of inventory.
A brief treatment of the barcodes used in the eEvolution standard is presented, as well as the practical application of mobile data entry in eEvolution. General Access to the MDE Suite is obtained through a terminal server on which eEvolution is installed. Mobile data entry is then performed with a mobile hand-held device that connects to the terminal server using the Remote Desktop Protocol and then obtains direct access there to the MDE Suite from eEvolution.
It is possible to save the login data as start parameters in a link on the desktop so you can log in to eEvolution automatically. This eliminates the need to log in manually to the database using the login screen since the login screen cannot be shown in full anyway on the small display of the MDE device.
In eEvolution, the start parameters for all modules basically consist of the following parameters: 'c:\Programme\eEvolution' MDE-Suite.exe <DATENBANK> <MANDANTENNUMMER> <LOGIN> <PASSWORT>, 'c:\programs\eEvolution': Here you can enter the path to the .exe on the terminal server <DATABASE>: Here you can enter the name of the default database a user is automatically logged on to. <CLIENT ID>: Here you can enter the consecutive number of the client, under whose name the module is to be registered automatically. <LOGIN>: Here you can enter the name of the user to be logged on automatically to the database.<PASSWORD> : Here you can enter the password allocated to the user.
special MDE-masks were developed. The following MDE-masks are available: MDE storage, MDE Inventory, MDE picking, MDE re-booking, MDC during Packaging,These masks have been optimized for display sizes of 320 x 240 pixels, they can, however, be used without any problem for individual display formats. For this, launch the eEvolution Customizer using the shortcut CTRL and F8 to adapt the dialog window to your individual needs.
Operation using the Windows Mobile operating system Specifically, Windows CE, Windows Mobile 5, Windows Mobile 6.1, and Windows Mobile 6.5 are supported as well as all operating systems that provide an RDP client and can send the string read in as keyboard input to the RDP application.
Ability to read a 2D barcode data matrix so that the standard barcode can be used. Technical Implementation: The MDE Suite uses the normal processes of eEvolution. It only uses a mobile data entry device in connection with the MDE screens optimized for them instead of a requiring you to enter the data manually.In this case, eEvolution interprets the information read by the hand-held device and then displays it in a legible form on the screen using the MDE screens. 
Basically, a scanning operation can be described as follows: When scanning in a barcode, the MDE device simulates the keyboard input required to enter all the information encoded in the barcode. This input could be the item number, picking number, batch number, storage location number, or serial number, for example. The MDE device can enter this data in a fraction of a second. After that, a command is sent informing eEvolution that the corresponding data was entered successfully. The command sent to eEvolution basically has the same meaning as when manually pressing the ENTER key after entering data manually. 
For mobile data entry in eEvolution, it is necessary to defined a standardized barcode for items, storage locations, pick lists, and packaging.barcode definition is that it is, able to represent data using binary symbols that can then be easily processed by machines.
A barcode can be generated automatically in eEvolution, and the barcode itself is created List & Label. To accomplish this, you only need to edit the corresponding L&L report in the List & Label designer and insert the appropriate barcode supported by L&L and the MDE device at the desired position. 
The result is that the MDE modules need to be adapted to match the properties of a barcode when you do not want to use the standard eevolution barcode. Such adjustments are fairly common in customer projects, though.
Summary of general 1-D barcodes includes GTIN-13, EAN-13, UCC-13, JAN-13, EAN-14, UCC-14,GTIN-8, EAN-8, UCC-8, JAN-8, UPC-A, UPC-E and many more. Read more on wikierp.de
If you want to know more on barcode? Here is what I found for you - 1) http://www.wikierp.de/mde-suite.mde-suite_Picketikett.ashx 2)second one is this - http://www.wikierp.de/mde-suite.mde-suite_DasLagerplatzetikettBarcode.ashx
In eEvolution, it is recommended to use the 2D data matrix barcode ECC 200, which provides a very powerful error correction algorithm. it provides large amounts of data for machine processing while requiring relatively little space. Another important point is support for different compression methods for text, numbers, or binary data. Even German umlauts can be represented without any problems.
The default character string definition supports the following prefixes: ITEMNOS = Item label, STLOCLAB = Storage location label, PICKL = Pick list, PICKLAB = Pick label
standard definition prefixes includes ITEMNO. = Item number, QTY = Quantity, SNO = Serial number, BATNO = Batch number, WHNO = Warehouse number, CONSNO = Consecutive Number. one example of standard definition prefixes is 'ITEMNOS |ITEMNOR 123455|QTY 5|' 
The individual storage locations need a barcode so that an item can be read in, placed in stock, transferred, picked, or packed correctly. By assigning a barcode to each storage location, it is possible to assign items or remove items scanned by the mobile data entry device to and from the bins. The storage location barcode is printed on the storage location label. The report 'lagerpl.lst' is used as the basis in this case. It can also be found in the QRP folder in the execution directory of eEvolution.
The storage location label usually contains the name of the warehouse and the coordinates in the plain text, while all other information is contained in the barcode. The barcode includes the following information: String prefix - WHLAB Uniqe warehouse number - WHNO Storage location number (per item) - CONSNO, Unique storage location - STLOC, Coordinate 1 - 5.
The following string, on the basis of which the barcode will be generated, was developed based on this: 'WHET|WHNO Warehouse number|CONSNO Storage location number|STLOC Coordinate1 [Coordinate2] [Coordinate3] [Coordinate4] [Coordinate5] |'.
To simulate a mobile data entry device, enter the folowing string -'WHET|WHNO Warehouse number|CONSNO Storage location number|STLOC Coordinate1 [Coordinate2] [Coordinate3] [Coordinate4] [Coordinate5] |'.
The pick list needs its own barcode so that it is possible to associate commission numbers to pick lists without any problems. The barcode therefore contains the commission number, which can then be used to uniquely identify a pick list.
Information pick list barcode contains, A -Picking No,Order No.All items to be picked including the item numbers, item names, and quantities W/H coord. This information is necessary so that the person picking can determine the order of picking by themselves.
If items having labels without standard markings then A guided picking process can be activated for items having labels without standard markings. The corresponding report can be found under the name 'kompick10.lst' in the QRP folder.
A pick label is used if items are placed in stock without item labels. The pick labels contain the most important information on the commission. This is to ensure that it is still easy to associate items to the correct commission without any problems. find more here - http://www.wikierp.de/mde-suite.mde-suite_Picketikett.ashx.
The pick label barcode includes the following information, String prefix - PICKET, Item number - ITEMNO, Quantity - QTY, Serial number (for items controlled by serial numbers) - SNO, Batch (for batch-controlled items) - CHR, Picking No. - PICKNO.
To configure MDE in the Item Management Module follow, Autom.creation of labels when storing, allow labels to be printed automatically after the stock placement operation for items managed by serial number or by batch or for items for which a packaging unit was stored. As soon as an item has been stored, the appropriate labels for the item are printed automatically.
To determine the number of item labels is being printed when placing item in stock,either You mark this option in the Item module and enable 'Only print labels for marked items' in the Purchasing Management module under Basic Setting or you can specify the number of labels to be printed manually in the Stock Placement dialog as an alternative so Only the number of labels entered here will be printed!.
If items that are not labeled by the suppliers, only works for items in which the 'Automatic creation of labels' option has been enabled.
A packaging unit is used to combine a certain quantity of identical items to form a group. The quantity specified here is then used when printing the item labels so that you do not have to label items individually when the items are not managed by serial number or by batch. You can also specify the dimensions of the packaging unit here and enable and disable them separately for each item. 
It is possible to store several EAN numbers per packaging unit since these numbers may differ for each packaging unit even when the packaging units are identical. These settings can be found on the Miscellaneous tab.
